---
title: QOB; Query Optimization Blockchain
date: 2021-11-04T15:04:10.000Z
description: >-
  This is a tool designed for database search query optimization by using blockchain technology. This tool aims to make a superior database functionality.
  Database Optimization through Blockchain.
---

This is a new project that I have been working on during my time as a undergraduate student at Allegheny. This project is proposed currently to be my senior composition project. The work entailed within this project is very fascinating for the major and field I am aprt of as well as a key piece to bringing my entire education at Allegheny College. 

Blockchain techology has become a large presences in the computer science field. Blockchain is the basis of cryptotechnology regarding transaction and validation. The distrubted ledger allows for immutable record across thousands of independent nodes to confirm or reject inputted values to the ledger. The design of the ledger allows for maximum security as the values sent to the ledger need to confirm consensus before being published onto the ledger. This security and efficiency design creates a great framework for a database strucuture. QOB looks to design an efficient, secure, and new optimization factor that will allow for quicker result times and faster returns. By being able to use unique data hashes for optimized search queries with fast returns. Using these unique set attributes unique to blockchain, a strong database structure could be implemented. 

## What is Query-Optimization Blockchain

Modern blockchain technologies have bcome a growing branch of computer science research throughout recent years. The decentralized distributed network allows for the use of the technology across many platforms throughout the world. Many different concepts are thought of when discussing the blockchain technology. The most common source of the blockchain algorithm is the background algorithm for some of the world's largest cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin or Ethereum. Early research shows that use of blockchain technology can stretch much farther. What are some areas of computer science that could benefit from blockchain\cite{zhang2019security}? Database systems are one area of computer science we are seeing being flooded with unwanted data, malware, hackers, etc. This area of computer science is seemingly always under some point of stress regarding the database functionality and it's security. One of the major problems regarding data securty and storage relates to reliabilty, efficiency, and security. Blockchain is a technology that has these components as set standards for the product. With implementation of the blockchain technology algorithm into a databases system will significantly improve the functions and eliminate flaws in convetional database systems\cite{raikwar2020trends}. What makes a blockchain structure fit to run a usable and reliable database? There are many factors that blockchain uses to allow for its decentralized area of nodes working together to create and find the next hash or block. Instead of looking for unique hashes regarding Bitcoing mining, this algorithm would consume a dataset in the same fashion, collecting each entry and applying it to its own block while connecting each data entry the last using a hashing function between each of the entries. This simple idea would be the base of how the entire thesis project will be completed. Using similar blockchain algorithm functionalities to structure a database system will improve the efficiency of a database system compared to other common database systems. 

The original creation of the blockchain algorithm was implemented in 1991, by Stuart Haber and W. Scott Stornetta for the purpose of creating timestamps that could not be tampered with. From there, the technology has evolved into something much greater. At the most basic level, blochchain enables a community of users to record transactions across a distributed shared ledger. Each transaction within the ledger is verified by a shared consensus across majority of the platform. Once information is set and confirmed, it is placed onto the blockchain. Once completed and confirmed, the transaction cannot be undone or erased, rather they are immutable. This functionality gives the algorithm structure and security through confirmation of large consensus. Throughout the blockchain algorithm, there are sets of nodes that confirm the transactions, and once validated are added to the public blockchain\cite{xu2021can}. Along with transactions and nodes are connected with each other through a hash key. These keys connect transactions to individual nodes, allowing them to confirm the base of transer. Confirmations and connections are the heart of the blockchain. The properties of blockchain are what make the algorithm ideal for a decentralized network of nodes working together to complete and confrim transactions in real time, as it was designed for, although these prorperties can translate to different branches of computer science translating to much more than just cryptocurrencies. Development of a database system using these core attributes will improve the workflow and query application of the tool. 

The advancement of algorithmic solutions for common databse problems has been in the eye of programmers for some time. The problem does not occur in the lack of work done on database systems, but more simply, how they can be improved\cite{beirami2019trusted}. Blockchain has many ideal networks that would work well in comparison to data storage system. Storing data along the blockchain ensures security and protection because of the connection between nodes. Allowing different data sets and nodes to be stored along the blockchain allow access to all of the storage files within the data storage. Since each piece of data is linked to the previous and the next, this ensures that the data cannot be tampered with as the private and public keys ensure the correct data is sifted correctly. Looking at different database structures like MySql or MongoD, an algebra and map-based storage structure, blockchain connects each entry to the last. This would allow for the structure of the database to be more efficient by developing a strong hash algorithm\cite{fu2020study}. Comparing my own blockchain based algorithm to these common strucutres will show which structure would be more efficient and cost regarding run time. Comparison is important throughout the development as it will show if and how the blockchain structure could be an improvement regarding database structure. Stroring data effieciently and with security, is what allows this idea, in theory, very well. The sturdy nature of the blockchain algorithm is what allows for these attributes to stand out amongst other algorithmic solutions.

There are many different solutions that could be implemented regarding efficiency and security within algorithmic solutions, so why choose blockchain? Much of the motivation came from a peak of interest within cryptocurrencies, and exploring how they work in nature. Database structures is also an area of high interest. Throughout the Allegheny College Computer Science cirriculum, there is a main focus on database research and strucutre, while also taking time in other classes to research algorthmic structure and development. Combining these areas of study and interest, I was able to develop the proposal work with high expectations and enthusiasm. Cryptocurrencies could not exist without blockchain, as it is the soul of many large currencies. The potential for this technology is only starting to become discovered. With new information and ground-breaking research, blockchain has shown that it worth the time of groups and individuals to explore more. The growing blockcahin has already made great strides in the digital currency, and will continue to do so outside of cryptocurrency. 

