---
title: 'Blockchain-19: Database Systems with an Integration of Blockchain'
date: 2017-01-04T15:04:10.000Z
description: >-
  Blockchain-19 uses the basic attributes of the blockchain algorithm to implement a dimple database with high security. This database aims to hold sensitive data for either companies or individuals. The system uses attributes of hashes and distributed ledgers to complete vast and concrete data system. This project was worked on with fellow undergraduate studnets as a final project for a high level CryptoCurrency class.
  Blockchain is the future of algorithm structures.
---

Link to Github Project: https://github.com/lussierc/blockchain-19


## Introduction to Blockchain Systems

Throughout the last three weeks our class has had an in depth discussion about cryptocurrencies and how they function. The algorithm and means of storage behind one of the biggest cryptocurrencies (Bitcoin) is known as blockchain. Blockchain was one of the main focus points in our class sessions as it is the key to creating and maintaining the ledger that bitcoin runs on. This algorithm allows for the storage of the mining and transaction data of bitcoin across the globe, a decentralized system that allows anyone to confirm the correctness of transactions and work with each other, while also keeping all individual parties anonymous. Blockchain is a great decentralized way to store data. With all that we had learned over the semester we knew that a blockchain data storage algorithm based program is what our group wanted to pursue. The Blockchain Game we played in class was a big inspiration for our project, helping us to create the hash function and statuses that would be the basis for our blockchain. With an idea for our project now in mind, the only thing we needed to create our blockchain algorithm was the data to store in it. We thought about this for a few days as the data is almost as important as the algorithm its being used by. With all of the data and research with the current global pandemic, we wanted to use mock-up covid-19 hospital / patient data. This direction was realistic in the way that our algorithm could store important data for hospitals and researchers without giving away the identity of any patients. Patient confidentiality is important to the integrity of our healthcare system, which made blockchain storage a perfect fit for this realistic application. Data stored in such a blockchain could be used by both hospital systems and those investigating the virus alike, as researchers can use this confidential and anonymous data to learn more about the virus. Here is where Blockchain-19 was started.

## Design of the Project Tool

Now that we had our idea set in stone we needed to hash out (pun intended) how we were going to design and move forward with the project. There were several steps necessary going forward before we started implementing our algorithm. The group needed to layout how the functionality of the program would work, what variables were we using, how was the hash going to be generated, where are we storing variables, etc. When we first started thinking about the flow of our program we ran into some functionalities that we wanted the program to have. As listed in the flow chart below, we wanted the user to have the option to start a new ledger or import and existing one. This would allow for integrity of the data as the user is now able to save data entered and enter new data without the risk of losing or entangling old data.

This was important to the functionality of the program and for application purposes. Now if a researcher or doctor is looking at the ledger they have an option to continue the blockchain of old files, or start a new one for say 'a patient overload'. This small function made the program more dynamic and have a more realistic applicable use.

When users imported a ledger they were given a variety of options to interact with the ledger. They could choose to add new patient information to the end of the blockchain. They could also choose to search for blocks containing a specific hospital, status, or patient ID within the ledger, as seen in the picture below. By adding search and append features, one could imagine how our project is similar to an actual blockchain. These functionalities would be perfect for hospital workers looking to add patient blocks or find certain patients within the hospital system, or for researchers looking to see how many patients had one specific status.

Once the user selects whether to import or create a new ledger, they will have the option to enter new patient information (or append this info if your are importing) block by block, each patient being one block. The information that the computer needs to solve for the hash is the Patient ID, Hospital ID, and Patient Status. These are the three variables (a,b,c) in our hash function that are required to calculate the hash variable. We used the equation below to calculate our hash function. This was the basic function we used to solve for all of our hash values in the blockchain algorithm. Using this equation the program is able to store and call on any of those variables after the hash is calculated. Once the hash is calculated, the program would simply take the next input and calculate the next hash. All of the hash functions are connected to each other, keeping the integrity of the blockchain. This must be kept in mind during implementation so that we made sure the correct values were passed to the next hash, avoiding errors in calculation. To make sure the algorithm and function worked, and for our own basic understanding of how the function needed to be solved, the group individually calculated the mock-values below.

This file was a great resource for our implementation. Creating this file was important for the understanding of how the group was going to implement this design. When it was time to implement this part of the project, the chart made it much simpler to understand. The implementation was a bit tricky as there are a lot of calculations and numbers being stored. Correctly passing these values on was key to having the correct output.